Add LLM (AI) Policy. (#28141)
containers/podman: LLM_POLICY.md

# Podman LLM (AI) Development Policy

This document is based on [Jellyfin LLM Policy](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/contributing/llm-policies/)
and licensed under [CC-BY-ND-4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/).

LLMs such as Claude and ChatGPT are powerful development tools. They can
help both experienced and new developers. However, they also introduce risks.

Podman has always prioritized code quality (readability, simplicity, and conciseness)
and friendly communication. Our small team maintains these standards manually. As LLM
usage grows within the Podman community, this policy clarifies our expectations for
contributions and communication across all official projects and spaces.

## No LLM-Generated Direct Communication

LLM output must **not** be used verbatim in:

* Issues or comments
* Pull request bodies, comments, or commit messages.
* Forum or chat posts
* Security and vulnerability reports

All communication must be written in your own words. You must understand what you are submitting.

LLM-written content is often long, impersonal, and error-prone. Our small team does not have time

> to review unclear submissions and read impersonal comments.

Reviewer: Maybe something like 

"As a small team with limited resources, we are unable to spend time reviewing unclear submissions or responding to impersonal comments"

Podman has always prioritized code quality (readability, simplicity, and conciseness)
and friendly communication. Our small team maintains these standards manually. As LLM
usage grows within the Podman community, this policy clarifies our expectations for
contributions and communication across all official projects and spaces.

## No LLM-Generated Direct Communication

LLM output must **not** be used verbatim in:

* Issues or comments
* Pull request bodies, comments, or commit messages.
* Forum or chat posts
* Security and vulnerability reports

All communication must be written in your own words. You must understand what you are submitting.

LLM-written content is often long, impersonal, and error-prone. As a small team with limited
resources, we are unable to spend time reviewing unclear submissions or responding to impersonal
comments.

* Exception: If you use an LLM to translate your thoughts into English, clearly state this
  (e.g., “Translated with an LLM from MyLanguage”).
* Exception: The LLM-based bot can be configured by the maintainers to review the PRs
  and suggest changes. These changes are only suggestions and might be wrong. It’s up

>   to contributor and maintainer to decide if the particular suggestion make sense.

Reviewer 2: nit: 
```suggestion
  to the contributor and maintainer to decide whether the particular suggestion makes sense.
```

>   to the contributor and maintainer to decide whether the particular suggestion makes sense.

Reviewer 3: Personally I am not happy with using any kind of LLM review bots by default. If we expect contributors to not submit slop we must not throw the same at them.
If we ever do something like this it must be opt in by the author of the change AND a maintainer would need to dismiss the wrong comments and clearly tell the author which of the comments would need to be addressed.

Repeated violations may result in the closure or deletion of the submission or in a permanent ban from Podman projects.

## LLM Code Contributions

LLMs may assist with code, but you are fully responsible for what you submit.

### Requirements

> * Follow all guidelines in [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Reviewer 4: I ran into a case where a person is obviously using AI and explicitly stated so. While the transparency is good, the AI agent is obviously not able to follow the guidelines in [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md), and it seems there is no effort being made to pass CI. Once this policy gets merged, can I close such PRs immediately, or should I first leave a comment asking them to meet all the requirements from [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)?

This is the second time this person has contributed using AI. It seems they are targeting `good first issues`, but the AI isn't able to check the context. For example, it doesn't notice if a PR has already been submitted, or if there were previous attempts to fix the issue that contain discussions with important information.

- https://github.com/containers/podman/pull/28149
- (duplicite pr) https://github.com/containers/podman/pull/28148

I have a feeling that it is done without any human review on the contributor's side.
